# Bluetooth-Boost-Controller

##Turbochargers are changing and shaping the automotive industry. The technology started back in the early 70's in the competitive world of Formula One Racing. The far out idea forcing air into an internal  combustion engine back then was something unheard of. A turbocharger achieves this. It is quite literally a big air pump for an engine. 

##After some research and design, it was realized that engines which produced 400 to 500 horsepower, were capable of 1,200 to 1,500 horsepower with the aid of turbocharger. Back then the basic principle that unleashed this power was that, more air, and more fuel could produce a bigger bang. The bang is the result of the combustion produced when fuel is ignited with air inside the engine, thus resulting in more horsepower. However, a few problems remained in the design of turbocharger designs. First, how is the excess air going into the engine controlled. Second, how can it be monitored.

###### New technologies that have come out in the last decade have been able to solve those two issues. Methods of using air diverter valves, solenoids and components called wastegates, are used to control airflow and pressure levels. The second issue has been solved by using mechanical, and in some instances, electrical gauges to let drivers know how their turbo is performing. Currently on the market there are car computers that can control a turbo, display turbo performance and keep an engine running all at the same time. However these systems are extremely expensive and can cost up to $10,000 in some cases. These systems all operate under the same physics principles that were proven back in the 70's. 

##With todays development in microcontrollers, the ability to control air and display data has become easier than ever before. The purpose of this project will be to, integrate wireless communication, design custom printed circuit boards, and build a case for the components in this project. This project will take the boost controller project to a prototype phase capable of being mass produced for automotive applications. The result of this product will produce an affordable and accessible product to automotive racing enthusiasts.